1. What does Nehemas mean by saying, “for Plato representation is transparent”?
--- p 248
    ‘It is precisely because the difference between imitations and their
    objects is ontological, a difference that cannot be perceived, that our
    reactions to both, which are based on our perception, are so similar.
    Plato's view is that the pleasure we feel at the representation of an
    expression of sorrow in poetry is pleasure at that expression itself, and
    for that reason likely to dispose us to enjoy such behavior in life. He
    does not consider the possibility that the pleasure may be directed not at
    the expression of sorrow but at its representation, and that this
    representation is an independent object, having features in its own right
    and subject to specific principles that determine its quality’

    --- p. 288
    ‘Realistic art is, just in the sense in which Plato thought ofimitation,
    transparent. This transparency, I believe, is not real. It is only the
    result of our often not being aware of the medi- ated and conventional
    nature of the representations to which we are most commonly exposed.’

2. How does this idea of transparency figure in Nehemas’s interpretation of Plato’s attitude towards poetry?
  --- It explains why Plato holds that our reactions to poetry are transferred
  directly to, and in fact often determine, our reactions to life, poetry is
  likely to make us behave in ways ofwhich we should be, and often are, ashamed.
  Poetry "introduces a bad government in the soul ofeach individual citizen"
  (605b7-8).


3. How is the idea of transparency supposed to support Nehemas’s comparison of Plato’s attitude towards poetry with some contemporary attitudes towards television? Does it?

  --- ‘In Mander's words, people were believing that an image ofnature was
  equal ... to the experience ofnature ... that images of historical events or
  news events were equal to the events . . . the confusion of . . . information
  with a wider, direct mode of experience was advancing rapidly.’

  --- ‘it is of the essence of popular entertainment that these hints are not,
  while the entertainment still remains popular, consciously perceived. Popular
  entertainment, in theory and practice, is generally taken to be inherently
  realistic.’ [cartoons!?]
  
  --- ‘we are still agreed with him that representation is transparent-at least
  in the case of those media that, like television, have not yet acquired the
  status of art and whose own nature, as opposed to what they depict, has not
  yet become in serious terms a subject in its own right.’


4. Does Nehemas’s comparison of Athenian poetry and television support, or undermine, Plato’s attitude towards poetry?

  ‘The common view that television is aesthetically worthless seems to me
  profoundly flawed. This is ... because ...Television is a vast medium that
  includes a great variety ofgenres, some ofwhich have no connection ofany kind
  with the arts.’

  ‘Television brings it, as it were, home to us. It imposes a routine on its
  viewers, it portrays routine for them, and it sug- gests that their own life
  mirrors what it portrays. Television will be resisted as long as routine
  remains, in the absence ofcriticism and interpretation, its most salient
  feature.’
  
  concluding lines tv is routine: ‘nothing, in principle, deprives the
  depiction of routine of aesthetic value just as nothing, in principle,
  prevents the depiction of foolishness, cruelty, murder, incest, ignorance,
  arrogance, suicide, and self-mutilation from constituting, as it has on at
  least one occasion, an unparalleled work of art.’
